OSSM-6383: OSSM in clusterwide mode can include ALL cluster projects (#75873)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-excluding-namespaces-from-cluster-wide-mesh-cli.adoc

[id="ossm-excluding-namespaces-from-cluster-wide-mesh-cli_{context}"]
= Including and excluding namespaces from a cluster-wide mesh by using the CLI

> In a cluster-wide mesh, you can add discovery selectors to the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource. Discovery selectors define which namespaces the control plane can discover. The control plane ignores any namespace that does not match one of the discovery selectors, which excludes the namespace from the mesh.

Reviewer: For sentence 2, is that really a restrictive clause or not? If it is:
```suggestion
In a cluster-wide mesh, you can add discovery selectors to the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource. Discovery selectors define the namespaces that the control plane can discover. The control plane ignores any namespace that does not match one of the discovery selectors, which excludes the namespace from the mesh.
```

Author: done. made change on console task as well.

[NOTE]
====

> If you install ingress or egress gateways in the control plane namespace, then you must include the control plane namespace in the discovery selectors.

Reviewer: ISG prefers that you avoid "If... then" constructions unless you really need them to show a conditional relationship between two long clauses. 

```suggestion
If you install ingress or egress gateways in the control plane namespace, you must include the control plane namespace in the discovery selectors.
```

Author: done. also made change on console task.

[id="ossm-excluding-namespaces-from-cluster-wide-mesh-cli_{context}"]
= Including and excluding namespaces from a cluster-wide mesh by using the CLI

> In a cluster-wide mesh, you add discovery selectors to the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource. Discovery selectors define which namespaces the control plane can discover. The control plane ignores any namespace that does not match one of the discovery selectors, which excludes the namespace from the mesh.

Reviewer 2: > In a cluster-wide mesh, you add discovery selectors...

Adding discovery selectors is optional, but I think this makes it sound like a requirement. I also think that adding something about limiting scope/visibility could give readers a more immediate understanding of what discovery selectors do. How about something like the following?

> In a cluster-wide mesh, discovery selectors can be added to the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource. Discovery selectors limit the scope of the control plane to a subset of the namespaces in the cluster. The control plane ignores any namespace that does not match one of the discovery selectors, which excludes the namespace from the mesh.

Author: done

----
<1> `<name>` represents the name of the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.

> . Modify the YAML file so that the `spec.discoverySelectors` field of the `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` resource includes the discovery selector. In the following example, Istiod discovers any namespace labeled `istio-discovery=enabled` or any namespace with name `bookinfo`, `httpbin` or `istio-system`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could change this to `istio-discovery: enabled` to remain consistent with the rest of the doc.

Author: done

+
[NOTE]
====

> When you decide which namespaces Istiod can discover, be careful not to include namespaces that may contain sensitive data or services.

Reviewer 2: Suggested change: When configuring namespaces that Istiod can discover, be careful not to include namespaces that may contain sensitive services that should not be exposed to the rest of the mesh.

Author: done

----
<1> `<name>` represents the name of the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.

. Modify the YAML file so that the `spec.meshConfig` field of the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource includes the discovery selector. 
+
[NOTE]
====

> When configuring namespaces that `Istiod` can discover, be careful not to include namespaces that might contain sensitive services that should not be exposed to the rest of the mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring namespaces that `Istiod` ${whichever_noun_fits_here} can discover, exclude namespaces that might contain sensitive services that should not be exposed to the rest of the mesh.
```

Author: done

====
+

> In the following example, `Istiod` discovers any namespace labeled `istio-discovery: enabled` or any namespace with the name `bookinfo`, `httpbin` or `istio-system`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, `Istiod` ${ISG_wants_a_noun_here_ideally} discovers any namespace that is labeled `istio-discovery: enabled` or any namespace that has the name `bookinfo`, `httpbin` or `istio-system`:
```

Author: done

        istio-discovery: enabled <1>
    - matchExpressions:
      - key: kubernetes.io/metadata.name <2>
        operator: In
        values:
        - bookinfo
        - httpbin
        - istio-system
----

> <1> Ensures that the mesh discovers namespaces that contain the label `istio-discovery: enabled`. The mesh does not discover namespaces that do not contain the label.

Reviewer 2: > The mesh does not discover namespaces that do not contain the label.

This is an inaccuracy. If a namespace matches _any_ of the matches (`matchExpressions` or `matchLabels`), then that namespace will be included in the mesh.

Author: done

        istio-discovery: enabled <1>
    - matchExpressions:
      - key: kubernetes.io/metadata.name <2>
        operator: In
        values:
        - bookinfo
        - httpbin
        - istio-system
----
<1> Ensures that the mesh discovers namespaces that contain the label `istio-discovery: enabled`. 
<2> Ensures that the mesh discovers namespaces `bookinfo`, `httpbin` and `istio-system`.
+

> If a namespace matches any of the `matchExpressions` or `matchLabels`, then the mesh discovers the namespace. The mesh excludes namespaces that do not match either the `matchExpressions` or `matchLabels`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a namespace matches any of the `matchExpressions` or `matchLabels` ${plural_noun}, the mesh discovers the namespace. The mesh excludes namespaces that do not match either the `matchExpressions` or `matchLabels`.
```
